README.md, before:

#This is the open-sourced Django project code for https://ajapaik.ee/

## Running locally
```bash
docker pull laurielias/ajapaik-web:python-3.6-latest
docker-compose up
```

## Build it yourself and launch
python-3.6-dlib is just python:3.6 with dlib and its dependencies installed. (compiling takes 10+ minutes otherwise)
```bash
docker pull laurielias/python-3.6-dlib
docker-compose up --build
```

## Push new image
```bash
docker push laurielias/ajapaik-web:python-3.6-latest
```

## Debug the container
If need be override the entrypoint in docker-compose.yml to tail -f /dev/null or the like. 
(in case the current entrypoint crashes, for example)
```bash
docker exec -it ajapaik bash
```

## Starting with a fresh DB, add a Django superuser
In the container:
```bash
python manage.py createsuperuser
```

## Deploy on our server
Make sure you have local.py (mostly secret Django settings) and client_secrets.json (Google credentials) in your 
project root. They will be mounted into the container on startup. Make sure the nginx on the host knows how to
proxy traffic to this container. Also symlink the media directory (the one with all the photos) into your project root,
same for the Postgres data directory. Push/pull images again to update.
```bash
docker-compose up -f docker-compose.dev.yml
```
TODO: upgrade our host system to Ubuntu 18.04 (10 years of LTS)
TODO: automate regular DB and media/uploads, media/videos backups

## Update Juks' Vanalinnad data
```bash
wget -r --no-parent -A empty.json,layers.xml http://vanalinnad.mooo.com/vector/places/
wget -r --no-parent -A *.jpg http://vanalinnad.mooo.com/raster/places/
```

## Translations via Transifex
```bash
python manage.py makemessages -a
python manage.py makemessages -a -d djangojs
tx push -s -t
tx pull -s -t
python manage.py compilemessages
```
You can push the .po files to Github so others would get fresh translations without this dance.


On your local machine cp local.py.example local.py to get a quick start.

Fix for 'django.contrib.gis.geos.error.GEOSException: Could not parse version info string "3.6.2-CAPI-1.10.2 4d2925d6"':
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/18643998/geodjango-geosexception-error

Installing Postgres:
https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-postgresql-on-ubuntu-18-04

May be of help:
ALTER USER ajapaik WITH PASSWORD 'seekrit';
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE ajapaik TO ajapaik;

Ajapaik depends on Postgres PostGIS functionality, with a fresh-enough Postgres, installation should be easy:
http://trac.osgeo.org/postgis/wiki/UsersWikiPostGIS23UbuntuPGSQL96Apt
http://trac.osgeo.org/postgis/wiki/UsersWikiPostGIS24UbuntuPGSQL10Apt


You'll need your own local settings in ajapaik/settings/local.py.
You should at least override or specify the following keys:
<ul>
  <li>ADMINS</li>
  <li>MANAGERS</li>
  <li>DATABASES</li>
  <li>SECRET_KEY</li>
  <li>LOGGING</li>
  <li>GOOGLE_API_KEY</li>
  <li>GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY</li>
  <li>GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_KEY</li>
  <li>ALLOWED_HOSTS</li>
</ul>

Running tests:
source venv/bin/activate
python manage.py test --settings=ajapaik.settings.test --nomigrations --keepdb


TODO: upgrade to Postgres 11
TODO: upgrade to Django 1.11
TODO: py.test
TODO: Spatialite for sqlite? Can use in automated tests?
TODO: command for regular stats exports

Commit message:

Run uwsgi via socket, fix dev.ajapaik.ee config, add problems to fix to readme

README.md, after:

## [Join Ajapaik Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/ajapaik/shared_invite/enQtNDE4NzkzMDEyOTYwLTQ2Mjc3ZmIwNGJmMjNjNTVjMGRmZDhkZjVlMzdhYjMxZDhkOTVmZTQ2MzFlNjNiYTJhNmY1ZjA0NjJkODg2ZTg)!
This is the open-sourced Django project code for https://ajapaik.ee/

## Running locally
```bash
docker pull laurielias/ajapaik-web:python-3.6-latest
docker-compose up
```

## Build it yourself and launch
python-3.6-dlib is just python:3.6 with dlib and its dependencies installed. (compiling takes 10+ minutes otherwise)
```bash
docker pull laurielias/python-3.6-dlib
docker-compose up --build
```

## Push new image
```bash
docker push laurielias/ajapaik-web:python-3.6-latest
```

## Debug the container
If need be override the entrypoint in docker-compose.yml to tail -f /dev/null or the like. 
(in case the current entrypoint crashes, for example)
```bash
docker exec -it ajapaik bash
```

## Starting with a fresh DB, add a Django superuser
In the container:
```bash
python manage.py createsuperuser
```

## Deploy on our server
Make sure you have local.py (mostly secret Django settings) and client_secrets.json (Google credentials) in your 
project root. They will be mounted into the container on startup. Make sure the nginx on the host knows how to
proxy traffic to this container. Also symlink the media directory (the one with all the photos) into your project root,
same for the Postgres data directory. Push/pull images again to update.
```bash
docker-compose up -f docker-compose.dev.yml
```
TODO: upgrade our host system to Ubuntu 18.04 (10 years of LTS)
TODO: automate regular DB and media/uploads, media/videos backups

## Update Juks' Vanalinnad data
```bash
wget -r --no-parent -A empty.json,layers.xml http://vanalinnad.mooo.com/vector/places/
wget -r --no-parent -A *.jpg http://vanalinnad.mooo.com/raster/places/
```

## Translations via Transifex
```bash
python manage.py makemessages -a
python manage.py makemessages -a -d djangojs
tx push -s -t
tx pull -s -t
python manage.py compilemessages
```
You can push the .po files to Github so others would get fresh translations without this dance.


On your local machine cp local.py.example local.py to get a quick start.

Fix for 'django.contrib.gis.geos.error.GEOSException: Could not parse version info string "3.6.2-CAPI-1.10.2 4d2925d6"':
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/18643998/geodjango-geosexception-error

Installing Postgres:
https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-postgresql-on-ubuntu-18-04

May be of help:
ALTER USER ajapaik WITH PASSWORD 'seekrit';
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE ajapaik TO ajapaik;

Ajapaik depends on Postgres PostGIS functionality, with a fresh-enough Postgres, installation should be easy:
http://trac.osgeo.org/postgis/wiki/UsersWikiPostGIS23UbuntuPGSQL96Apt
http://trac.osgeo.org/postgis/wiki/UsersWikiPostGIS24UbuntuPGSQL10Apt


You'll need your own local settings in ajapaik/settings/local.py.
You should at least override or specify the following keys:
<ul>
  <li>ADMINS</li>
  <li>MANAGERS</li>
  <li>DATABASES</li>
  <li>SECRET_KEY</li>
  <li>LOGGING</li>
  <li>GOOGLE_API_KEY</li>
  <li>GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY</li>
  <li>GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_KEY</li>
  <li>ALLOWED_HOSTS</li>
</ul>

Running tests:
source venv/bin/activate
python manage.py test --settings=ajapaik.settings.test --nomigrations --keepdb


TODO: upgrade to Postgres 11
TODO: upgrade to Django 1.11
TODO: py.test
TODO: Spatialite for sqlite? Can use in automated tests?
TODO: command for regular stats exports
TODO: clean up stale Docker stuff once in a while
TODO: fix CSRF
TODO: fix core dump https://github.com/ageitgey/face_recognition/issues/11
